# Methods

We retrieved raster environmental information from the Bio-Oracle database (add cite) and investigated the degree to which our sampling locations differ from each other. Specifically, we used aggregated data (predominantely between 2002 and 2009) that described the mean value and variability of environmental variables in a 5 arc min grid (approx 9km). These variables were related to climate (sea surface temperature, cloud cover, photosynthetically available radiation), biochemistry (salinity, pH, dissolved oxygen), nutrients (silicate, nitrate, phosphate, and calicite) and productivity (chrorophyll A, difusse attenuation). Because these environmental variables are usually strongly correlated, we first performed a principal component analysys (PCA) of the environmental variables in our 15 sampling locations. To improve normality, all variables were log-scaled. Then, for each species, we calculated the pairwise distance between locations across the tree main dimensions in the PCA (which cummulatively explained 85% of the environmental variability.

Because the geographic separation between locations might also influence the genetic differentiation within species, we also included the pairwise distance between samples in the analysis. This distance corresponds to the length of the shortest possible path that does not run over land between two given locations. To calculate it, we used the least-cost distance function (`costDistance`) in the R package `gdistance` (add cite) while defining the transition matrix in such a way that dispersal over land is 10000 times more expensive than dispersan over the ocean.
